Ashwin Kashyap 8 N 2nd Ave. FL 2
Highland Park
NJ 08904 Primary Phone:(732) 342-7323
Secondary Phone:(732) 445-6721
Email: ashwink@paul.rutgers.edu
http://www.cs.rutgers.edu/~ashwink


             
OBJECTIVE    A position as a software developer that combines
             systems and applications architecture, network
             and systems engineering and programming and
             design that exploits my creative thinking and
             analytical zeal.
             
KEYWORDS     Computers,  software, mobile computing,  peer-to-
             peer,  networking,  embedded  systems,  wireless,
             database  development. Java, Perl, C++, C,  Unix,
             Linux.
             
EXPERIENCE   1/2001 - Present        Dataman Lab, RutgersNew
             Jersey
             Research Assistant
             I  work as a research assistant with Prof.  Badri
             Nath    in    the   Dataman   Lab   in    Rutgers
             (http://www.cs.rutgers.edu/dataman). Our focus is
             in wireless sensor networks, mobile computing and
             peer-to-peer systems.
             Some interesting project I have worked on:
             »     Trajectory Based Forwarding (TBF) is a  new
                routing   protocol  for  sensor  networks.   I
                implemented the protocol on Motes running TinyOS.
                Each packet contains an encoded trajectory that
                guides the packet through the sensor field. In
                the current implementation, packets can follow
                continuous mathematical curves. The website is at
                http://athos.rutgers.edu/dataman/FourierNet/tbf.h
                tml.
             »     Ad  hoc Positioning System (APS) is  a  new
                algorithm to enable Motes to know about  their
                geographic  location  without  using  GPS.   I
                implemented the protocol on the Motes, and also
                designed  and implemented a querying protocol,
                which enables me to query and update the protocol
                state on the Mote. Developed a TCL/TK GUI that
                maps and queries the given sensor field in 2D.
                The           website          is           at
                http://athos.rutgers.edu/dataman/FourierNet/aps.h
                tml.
             »     Slip Simulator: Framework for emulating the
                IP  protocol  over TCP/IP sockets  using  data
                forwarding between a socket and TTY-pair.  One
                side  of the TTY pair is attached to the  SLIP
                protocol.
             »      Implemented   a  gateway  between   sensor
                networks and the Internet. The PC platform was
                Linux and on the sensor network, I used TinyOS
                running on Rene motes (Atmel AVR processors).
             Class Projects:
             »    Databases: Implemented an efficient 2D range
                query algorithm based on colored range searching.
             »     Computer Networks: Designed and implemented
                a peer-to-peer web server in C++, using the Chord
                API.  The  goal was to enable mobile users  to
                seamlessly  query and download information  in
                mobile networks based on location.
             »     Communications Network: Simulated protocols
                like BGP, Multicasting using a Java framework.
             »     OS  Project: User Level Threads library  on
                Solaris, Replicated File System and cache-affine,
                multiple run queue Linux scheduler.
             »      Software  Engineering  Project:  Real-time
                duplex voice communications using JMF.
             
             2/2001 - 12/2001         Mindtree Consulting
             Bangalore, India
             Software Engineer
             I  joined  Mindtree  as soon  as  I  finished  my
             bachelors. My responsibilities included designing
             and  implementing  several medium-sized  software
             modules.   These   were  developed   in   various
             languages, including Java, C, C++ and PERL.
             Summary of some interesting projects:
             »     MP3  crawler  in Java to crawl  the  office
                network! This is a multithreaded CIFS/SMB crawler
                that crawls all computers in the domain. A PERL
                script will then generate dynamic HTML using the
                stored  data  and  the user’s query.  Website:
                http://www.cs/~ashwink/free_software/mp3Spider/in
                dex.html.
             »     Developed reentrant libraries in C, C++ and
                Java. The library provides a set of APIs to  a
                IMAP-like protocol, used for the administration
                of a message server.
             »      Designed   and  implemented  a   NNTP-IMAP
                gateway. A new storage method was provided to the
                INND  news server, which enables storing  news
                messages in a given IMAP folder.
             »    Was part of a team that designed USB drivers
                for UHCI controllers, the platform was VxWorks.
             »     Asynchronous mail notification using  PERL,
                LDAP and UDP.
             
EDUCATION    12/2002       Rutgers, The State University New
             Jersey
             Master's Degree
             »    Pursuing my Masters in Computer Science
             »    Current GPA is 3.5
             »    I Expect to graduate by December 2002
             
             9/2000        BMS College of EngineeringBang
             alore, India
             Bachelor's Degree
             »      Secured   a  degree  in  Electronics   and
                Communication.
             »    Distinction in my final semester and a first
                class overall.
             
SKILLS       Deep   knowledge  and  experience  with  Systems,
             Internet   technologies,  software   development,
             public speaking, and technical writing.
                                                   
             Skill Name    Skill       Last used   Experience
                           Level
             Java          Expert      Currently   2 years
             C++           Intermedia  used        1 year
             C             te          1 year ago  3 years
             PERL          Expert      Currently   1 year
             Linux         Expert      used        3 years
             Embedded      Expert      1 year ago  1 year
             Systems       Intermedia  Currently
             (Atmel AVR)   te          used
                                       Currently
                                       used

